---
layout: post
title: "vpn setup"
date: 2024-11-24 11:48:02 -0400
categories: security vpn homelab
---

There’s is almost as many reasons to use a vpn, as there are options for a vpn. Today, 
I wanted shed some light on the use of private self hosted vpn and why it can be handy as well as limitations. The implementation is actually 
pretty affordable, and can be setup in an afternoon quite easily. For me I went with a raspberry pi 4 and installed pivpn (pivpn.io). The total 
cost was less than $50 dollars and it functions great. 

While there is a lot of good reasons to subscribe to a hosted vpn service, there can be some good reasons for using a personal vpn as well. 
For me there was just enough reasons to justify the setup, but that might not be the case for everybody. I do a good amount of traveling and I 
want access to my locally resources on the road. While I am concerned about safety and security, I also recognize the usefulness of many IoT devices. 
So with this setup, I can keep all devices from the public internet, and only worry about one port being open the public internet. This way I can 
still access cameras, and network storage while away, but limit the attack surface of my home network. 

For this I have a raspberry pi 4, with a stacked case, and pivpn. 

Links:

[Raspberry Pi vpn site](https://www.pivpn.io/)

[Raspberry pi on Amazon](https://www.amazon.com/s?k=raspberry+pi+4&adgrpid=1343603780097116&hvadid=83975450740109&hvbmt=be&hvdev=c&hvlocphy=91114&hvnetw=o&hvqmt=e&hvtargid=kwd-83975594152578:loc-190&hydadcr=18004_13443519&msclkid=5df3113a99d61f90e94b7678ab2122a4&tag=mh0b-20&ref=pd_sl_264yo59vid_e)

[Link to pi imager](https://www.raspberrypi.com/software/)

The easiest way to set it up is with the raspberry pi imager linked above. While there are other options like the dd command. This one is pretty easy and 
allows you to adjust the configuration quickly. Its a good idea to create a user and not use the default passwords. It also helps with finishing the setup 
later. 

For the image, I selected other and chose the lite OS. Which has no desktop environment at all. So if your planning to finish the setup with a monitor 
then you will likely want to use the full version. If you plan to finish setup and interact with the server via ssh. Then a desktop environment is just a
 waste of resources. 

For installation of pivpn, installation is automated and you can run the install via curl piped to bash. 
`curl -L https://install.pivpn.io | bash`

The next portion is adding pivpn. This is a project that makes the implementation of openvpn or gateguard vpn very easy. Installation comes from a script. 
And most of the set for the more difficult options like IP tables is largely done automatically. 

The final steps is to make your vpn accessible from the outside. This step is little tricky in the sense that poor configurations can lead to unwelcome 
digital visitors so if you find unsure. The best course of action would be to research or ask questions first. This is also different for every router and 
IP, so I can’t really add anything more than an outline. 

First you’ll want to determine if/how often your home IP address changes. There are several dynamic DNS options such as no-ip.com that you can you. You 
will also likely want to consider unattended updates to keep your server secured. There is also the option to adjust the port, which can help avoid 
automated scans as well. 

Its a quick and simple layout, with open source projects such as pvpn doing much of the heavy lifting like IP tables.