---
layout: post
title: "Changing modes"
date: 2025-11-16 11:48:03 -0400
categories: Change Fun Go Outside
---

Well, if you're on this blog you might have noticed the sparse amount of posts. 
Between generative ai, and the large amount of tech blogs. 
Finding an interesting or helpful angle to write about feels like it's a little more work than it should be. 
Lets be honest the days of tech blogs giving useful technical information is probably largely behind us. While ai probably misses alot with alot of questionable answers.
For me at least it's turned into almost a form of google search. 
I usually find some portions of the response that's not absolutely accurate, but it usually gets me close to the answer so it can be a real time saver. 
The same can be true for a lot of tech blogs, and even stack overflow.

This post is largely just explaining the transition. 
I have decided that while I love tech, using it as the main subject of a blog is kinda super twenty teens. 
Instead I will be doing more local to my location blogging. 
Things like biking, events around DC, beers/breweries you know the stuff people do when they are afk. Pretty much while I may still add some tech related posts. 
From my point of view, the tech blogs and days where posting tech info or helpful posts are kinda over. 
While I don't really have a reason to justify that, it's normal for things to adapt and change over time. 
Nobody stays interested in the same thing forever and so I am looking to adapt as well. 

So stay tuned in your interest in some tech stuff. 
But also some puppy pictures, info on chill bike routes around Washington DC, the best foods I can find on the east coast, and anything else. 
Like I mentioned, tech might not be the whole focus, but it will still come up at times. 
I just don't think the internet needs tons more tutorials on how tech subjects like they used too.  
